     
     Chapter 02 Worksheet

     
     
  1. Give an example of a binary number. (While a number such as ``1'' can be a
     binary, decimal, and hexadecimal number, try coming up with an example that
     better illustrates the differences between the different bases of numbers.)
                1 0000
  2. Give an example of a decimal number.
                13
  3. Give an example of a hexadecimal number.
                F
  4. Convert the numbers 1, 10, 100, 1000, and 10000 from binary to decimal.
                         1  2   4    8         16
  5. What is a compiler?
    A compiler takes the code typed in by the user and turns it into machine code.
  6. What is source code?
        source code is code that is typed in by the user
  7. What is machine language? (Don't just say binary. That's not correct.)
    Machine lanauge are the binary numbers representing instructions that the computer interprets
  8. What is a first generation language? (Don't just say binary. That's not correct.)
     The system of only using ones and zeros to represent numbers. This is also called the binary number system
  9. What is a second generation language?
     each command used a mnemonic, and a program called a compiler would change the mnemonics into the numbers that represented the commands. This is also called assembly language
 10. What is a third generation language? (Explain, don't just give one example.)
     Third generation languages made it a lot easier to program and allowed for higher-level abstractions.
 11. What is an interpreter and how does it differ from a compiler?
     interpreters are programs that look at source code and interpret it to machine language instructions on the fly. These can work on any type of machine, while a while that is configured on a Windows computer would not work on Apple or Linux computers. 
 12. Search the web and find some of the most popular programming languages.
     List the website(s) you got the information from and what the languages are.
     java, python, C, Ruby, JavaScript, C#, PHP, Objective-C, SQL.
     https://www.inc.com/larry-kim/10-most-popular-programming-languages-today.html
 13. Look at the job boards and see what languages people are looking for.
     List the languages and the job board you looked at.
     SQL, java, JavaScript, C#, C++, Python, PHP, Ruby on Rails, IOS/Swift
     http://www.codingdojo.com/blog/9-most-in-demand-programming-languages-of-2016/
 14. What is the difference between the ``syntax'' and ``semantics'' of a
     language?
    Syntax refers to the strcture or form of the code that a programming langauge specifices but Semantics deal with the meaning assigned to the symbols, characters and words.
 15. Pick a piece of technology, other than a computer you use regularly. Briefly
     describe the hardware and software that run on it.
    My phone. It is a Samsung Galaxy J7 Prime.
    It runs on Android 7.0 Nougat
    Has a 13 megapixel camera in the back and an 8 megapixel camera in the front.
    it has a 1080 x 1920 pixel display
    and it runs off a Samsung exynos 7 Octa core processor.
     
